THE REAL WORLD

Despite problems with Palestinian people and ridiculously 
high inflation, Israel has emerged as the strongest power 
- due. in part, to U.S. assistance.Since World War II, we have been told that no major wars 
have occurred. In reality, there have been many small 
scale confrontations all over the world which have not 
developed into larger wars mainly because of Super-  THE WORLD OF CONFLICT 
power pressure and fear of nuclear holocaust. But, the 
Superpowers  are in decline. Japanese economic strength 
increases the U.S. deficit. New Soviet leaden are con- 
centrating more on internal problems than foreign affairs. 
The days of purely military campaigns have gone.  All 
modern battles have definite political objectives. 

THE WORLD OF THE MIDDLE EAST 

Today, the Middle East is as unstable and dangerous as 
any time since the Crusades. The Superpowers encour- 
age their fighting cocks and try out their state-of-the art 
military gadgets It is the potential cradle for World  War III. 
The year is 1997. After twenty years of relative peace in 
the Middle East, tensions are starting to mount as the 
ever present fears of re-armament  and nuclear testings 
are confirmed. The situation is brought to a head with 
the assasination of the Israeli Prime Minister on Decem- 
ber  29, 1996. That same day you are sworn into office 
as leader of Israel. 

As the New Year begins, you set out  to achieve your aim: 
to force the collapse of neighboring states while keep- 
ing Israel  alive and monitoring the conflict between Iran 
and Iraq. Direct military defeat, political destabilization 
or general pressure can all lead to the collapse of your 
neighbors-But remember, World opinion has to remain 
favorable and Superpowers persuaded to help your 
cause. All the while the internal health of the Israeli state 
has to be maintained as your opponents seek your 
downfall. 

The main regional power is Saudi-Arabia, a country too 
rich to be used as a pawn by the Superpowers. Egypt, 
Syria. Jordan and Iraq play central roles in the constant 
power  struggles. Jordan has adopted sly leadership to 
keep  it secure.  Libya and Iran lie on the western and east- 
ern edges of the area: both have been sharp thorns in 
the side of the U.S. government. 

In the middle of all this mayhem lies one of the smallest 
and most controversial countries on Earth - Israel. Born 
in 1948  this nation state started life fighting. Conflicts with 
the surrounding states  led to war in 1956, 1957 and 1973.

Despite problems with Palestinian people and ridiculously 
high inflation, Israel has emerged as the strongest power 
- due. in part, to U.S. assistance.Since World War II, we have been told that no major wars 
have occurred. In reality, there have been many small 
scale confrontations all over the world which have not 
developed into larger wars mainly because of Super-  THE WORLD OF CONFLICT 
power pressure and fear of nuclear holocaust. But, the 
Superpowers  are in decline. Japanese economic strength 
increases the U.S. deficit. New Soviet leaden are con- 
centrating more on internal problems than foreign affairs. 
The days of purely military campaigns have gone.  All 
modern battles have definite political objectives. 

THE WORLD OF THE MIDDLE EAST 

Today, the Middle East is as unstable and dangerous as 
any time since the Crusades. The Superpowers encour- 
age their fighting cocks and try out their state-of-the art 
military gadgets It is the potential cradle for World  War III. 
The year is 1997. After twenty years of relative peace in 
the Middle East, tensions are starting to mount as the 
ever present fears of re-armament  and nuclear testings 
are confirmed. The situation is brought to a head with 
the assasination of the Israeli Prime Minister on Decem- 
ber  29, 1996. That same day you are sworn into office 
as leader of Israel. 

As the New Year begins, you set out  to achieve your aim: 
to force the collapse of neighboring states while keep- 
ing Israel  alive and monitoring the conflict between Iran 
and Iraq. Direct military defeat, political destabilization 
or general pressure can all lead to the collapse of your 
neighbors-But remember, World opinion has to remain 
favorable and Superpowers persuaded to help your 
cause. All the while the internal health of the Israeli state 
has to be maintained as your opponents seek your 
downfall. 

The main regional power is Saudi-Arabia, a country too 
rich to be used as a pawn by the Superpowers. Egypt, 
Syria. Jordan and Iraq play central roles in the constant 
power  struggles. Jordan has adopted sly leadership to 
keep  it secure.  Libya and Iran lie on the western and east- 
ern edges of the area: both have been sharp thorns in 

CONTROLS 

UP/DOWN Choose menu option 
CURSOR KEYS 
RETURN Complete menu option selection 
SHIFTS Save the current game at newspaper 
screen 
SHIFT-B Call up a report gathered from official 
sources summarizing diplomatic and 
intelligence positions 
SHIFT-E Quit the current game 
HOME Takes you to the top of the menu 
! END Takes you to the bottom of the menu 
CONFLICT is entirely menu-driven. Use the Up/Down 
cursor keys  to choose a menu option and press RETURN 
to select. HOME moves  you to the top of the menu and 
END moves  you to the bottom of the menu. 

At any stage. SHIFT-E quits the current  game.  Game posi- 
tions may also be saved and loaded from the title screen 
menu. 

PLAYING THE GAME 

Good Morning, Prime Minister - Here Are The Papers 
Each game turn covers the period of one month, and 
a turn involves you in making decisions on diplomatic. 
intelligence, security and military matters. 

At the start of each turn. you have the opportunity to 
review the news. as reported in the world’s press. Dis- 
tortion, fabrication and propaganda all creep into the 
columns of newspapers. but they provide a sound indi- 
cation of how the rest of the world views your exploits. 
Use the news to gauge world opinion on the events that 
took place since the end of the previous turn, but don’t 
rely too heavily on the press for accurate informa- 
tionyou have Mossad,  a massive intelligence organi- 
zation at your disposal.

At this stage, it is possible to save the current  game posi- 
tion by pressing SHIFT-S.

Diplomacy And Intelligence 

Down to serious business-find out what is really going 
on around you. By selecting a country, you can call up 
a brief summary of official news,  collated from official 
sources rather than from the press. Pressing SHIFT-B allows  you to call  up a report which summarises  diplo- 
matic and intelligence positions  - check out each neigh- 
bowing state

Then, on a more general level, your Foreign Office can 
offer a measure of current conditions in the form of Pres- 
tige and Tension indicators. Israel’s prestige is likely to 
rise as you assert more  military or political strength. which 
will make you more popular with your people and raise 
your country’s profile in the world. Tension rises  as tanks 
roll and insults fly - rising tension may or may not be 
to your advantage. but it is wise to remember that the 
probability of nuclear holocaust increases as tension 
builds. 

The United Nations Security Council may step in and call 
a July summit if tension gets too high - and a variety 
of proposals may be made including ending current wars 
and setting  up a Palestinian homeland. 

The Diplomatic Approach 

Once you have appraised yourself of the picture it's time 
to start  making decisions. Diplomatic relations with neigh- 
bouring states influence the options that become availa- 
ble to you later in the game. Bear in mind that it will prove 
impossible to invade a country if you have built up excel- 
lent diplomatic relations with its leaders - your generals 
would refuse to mobilise  forces against a very friendly 
country, your Foreign Office staff would rebel and World 
opinion would line up against Israel. But diplomatic relalions need to be constantly worked on and improved if 
your aim is to make even  the most  limited pact with a 
country. 

By choosing to reduce diplomatic relations with a coun- 
try, you risk starting a conflict - which may all be part 
of your  strategy. On the other hand. by fostering relations 
it might be possible to sign a military agreement. But by 
signing an agreement  with one of your neighbours,  you 
might be contributing to another country’s war effort. 

Diplomacy is a tangled web at the best of times and in 
the best of conditions. but as you might expect. relations 
between Arab countries and Israel are always tentative. 

Covert Operations

Intelligence, both military and political, is vital to the suc- 
cessful running cd any nation state. Israel has built up one 
of the most successful intelligence services in the world 
- Mossad - and as Prime Minister you would be well 
advised to make good use of it. 

During peace time, Middle Eastern countries are con- 
tinually embroiled in covert activities aimed at destabilis- 
ing their neighbours. This normally involves giving finan- 
cial support to insurgent functions which war against an 
opposing government. Reports from the Psychopolitical 
Warfare Unit indicate the internal stability of your neigh- 
bours, and you must decide whether to support the 
government or hasten its demise. Israeli funds can be 
diverted to insurgent groups working inside other coun- 
tries, or you can choose to protect another government 
by attempting to disrupt the activities of insurgents. As 
the game develops, more powerful covert strategies will 
come within your reach - it may be possible to assas- 
sinate  the leader of another country, or start a coup. 
In the final analysis, it is not important what causes a 
government to collapse. Your aim is to achieve domina- 
tion by fair means or foul. and once a government has 
collapsed, it cannot recover again within the timespan 
of the game. 
After dealing with diplomatic and intelligence matters, it's 
time to develop your long and short-term strategies. With 
an eye on your defense budget. you need to maintain 
the security of Israel’s borders while building and deploy. 
ing your military forces. 
Weaponry is available from four sources: America, 
France. Britain and a private arms dealer. Dealing with 
your suppliers involves a special kind of diplomacy - 
they will only offer wide range of choice if they are sure 
you have the resources to pay and if you can convince 
them that you intend to keep buying from them. Forward 
planning is also needed, as equipment is usually shipped 
at the start of the following turn. although weapons 
sourced from the private dealer can take two months to 
arrive.